These medics look like John Wayne, Pancho Villa,
and Audie Murphy all wrapped up in one. They're
humping ammo for everybody. They've got
bandoliers with ammunition, you know, and you'd
have to say, how about getting your medical bag
there, boy? Oh, yeah, yeah, I forgot about that.
Because all of a sudden it was real world for them,
and that's the last time you ever heard about their
conscientious objectors because those guys know
us out of the rifle. They didn't care one way or the
other about his personal feelings. And neither
did they once it got real to them, which is what most
people in the United States don't understand.
They haven't been, they've never been afflicted
with true fear on a daily basis. And they just
really don't know what it's like. It's kind of like
some woman trying to explain to me what it feels
like to have a baby. Well, she can kind of tell me, I
can kind of, but still there's nothing like being
there and get the full benefit of the situation.
And you cannot explain to somebody who hadn't been
to Vietnam what Vietnam was really like. And, in
fact, it's so different, even people who went to
Vietnam, if you have one Vietnam veteran will talk
to another Vietnam veteran, you'd think that
there's some common bond there. And, yeah, there
is a little bit, But probably the first question
they're going to ask is not what unit you were with,
but when were you there? Because if you were there
in 65 or 66, I'm not saying it was like a vacation,
but it was not that much happening. And it changed.
And it changed, and the intensity changed. And the
nastiness changed and increased. But if you were
there in 68 and 69, which was the really high part,
then you have, you might say, an even more common of
a bond with certain people. And if you try to talk to
some Air Force guy, you know, about Vietnam. You
know, hard times to the Air Force guy was when they
couldn't get smoke glass windows for their hooch
with their refrigerated air conditioning. You
know, where these guys were scrounging, you know,
for items like that, smoke glass windows or the
little portable air conditioners and stuff like
that, or their stereos. Infantry, yeah, I was
scrounging for Claymore mines, grenades, uh,
stuff like that, uh, for just to have around, you
know, that was important, you know, for me, and,
and, you know, they were the nice, nicer things to
have, that was your frosting on the cake, uh,
because, uh, they were very effective, and they
were, you know, real meaningful for you. Uh, I'd
been in, uh, Vietnam for, I guess, probably, uh,
seven or eight months, and, and, uh, I went to, uh,
visit an Air Force friend. My heavy weapons NCO had
a brother who was stationed at Cameron with the Air
Force, and we went and visited him while we were
trying to get some supplies. And we visited him.
Well, we slept on a bed, had sheets, had showers
with hot water, a real luxury and things that are
real important to me right now. I love flush
toilets. I like hot water and I like clean sheets. I
didn't have that for the most part over there.
Contrast that to what you had as compared to what
they had, such as what you slept on, where you had to
use the restroom, things like that. You're
talking about the North Vietnamese or the enemy
type people? Your infantry. Oh, my people? as
opposed to the Air Force type people. Well, you
know, the Air Force people had a cafeteria they
went to three times a day, and they had their meals
prepared for them, and it didn't have any bugs in
it, and it was good, clean, edible food.
My last six months, I had to shop on the economy. In
fact, I had to buy, you know, my food. I was
furnished no food. My meals were not paid for. I had
to buy all my food while I was in Vietnam, which I did
not like. Our government paid all the salaries and
all the munitions used and food for the
Australians, the New Zealanders, the Koreans.
Everyone who came that fought on our side, our
government paid total expenses for all their
people. American officers have to pay brawl their
food, even in combat situations. Whether you eat
it or not, they take it out of your pay, which I
didn't think was too cool. My last six months,
which was when I was on this mobile advisory team,
which consisted of five people, you had your team
commander, an executive officer, there was two
officers, you had a medic, a heavy weapons NCO and a
light weapons NCO, and these were basically your
teachers. You know, you taught this, you taught
that officers mainly taught the tactics, and your
NCOs taught your, you know, all about the weapons
that you were going to use. So, I might teach a
class, say, like we're going to have a class today
on an L-shaped ambush, and this is the parts that
you're going to use. the weapons that you'll use
and and this is the way you set things up you draw
little pictures and show everybody how to do it and
There's the trail this is where the guys come in
when they get in what they call the kill zone and you
usually pop a claymore mine on them and that starts
everything everybody starts shooting and
whoever Stands around the latest usually wins,
you know But It's kind of funny, a lot of the
situation out there, but I was spending about $200
a month for food. I made $471 a month.
Bobcay or a head of cabbage, I would spend $2 for a
head of cabbage.
Rice, I could buy rice. I could buy rice from the
Americans, the CIA or the United States Agency for
International Development. Not that the CIA was
there. But I could buy rice from them. I'm talking
about your long grain, double A, wonderful Uncle
Ben's type rice. Not instant, but just real rice. I
could buy 100 pounds of that for $13.50. 100 is
about what it cost me. Conversely
to that situation, those same people were giving
rice to all of the Vietnamese nationals there.
They'd just come up and they'd just give them all
they wanted. It was amazing. And of course, you
couldn't give it to an American, but you could give
it to a Vietnamese. Why did they say they couldn't
give it to you? We weren't authorized. It wasn't a
program for Americans. It was a program for the
Vietnamese. because we were, you know, their
little rice paddies were getting blown up and that
kind of stuff, so we'd just go ahead and give them
completely harvested rice. And really what we
were doing, they were still growing their rice in
rice paddies, and we were really just providing
all the logistical support for the North
Vietnamese because they'd just come in there and
take all this bagged rice away from them, you know,
and they'd have all this rice stacked up in their
little bellages, you know, a little hooch, and
those guys would just come in there and take it. So
you weren't really helping anybody in any way
other than the enemy, who was trying to get you.
Makes a lot of sense. Well, when you were out there
fighting, did y'all jabber-type prisoners, or
they were just on the shot? Well, one thing I really
had a great deal of respect for the North
Vietnamese type of military. To me, they were as
good as we were. The only difference between us and
them was they had a lot less firepower at their
disposal than did we. But they were motivated. I
thought they did just a real good job. The South
Vietnamese Army I was less than impressed with.
They didn't do a good job. The South Vietnamese
Army, as well as the government, It was just
corrupt. All they did, they just took our stuff,
sold it, used it, you know, really gave you a real
negative feeling toward them. I don't dislike
Vietnamese, you know, on an individual basis, but
the mountain yard people over there were kind of
like the Indians that we talked about earlier.
Very nice people, honest. You could leave a $300
camera like if you just kind of left your camera on a
table or something in one of the little hooches,
you'd come back a week later and still be there. It
wouldn't even been touched. Whereas the
Vietnamese, there was still anything and
everything wasn't tied down, and then some things
were tied down. I didn't like that about them. I
didn't like their attitudes about a lot of things.
Of course, I don't know if I'd been in their
situation. I might have the same feelings.
Because, you know, to me, when you peel it all back,
it doesn't really make any difference whether
it's a French bomb, American bomb, or North
Vietnamese bomb. When it goes off, the damage is
still done. People are hurt. Properties are hurt.
Animals are hurt. And you can say you're sorry. The
only difference between us and everybody else is
our answer to everything is... Well, let's say we
kill three of your chickens. Here's X dollars for
those chickens and all the chickens that those
chickens would produce and all their little
grandchildren for chickens. And we pay them for so
many generations of chickens or hogs or whatever
it happened to be.
Probably, as far as fighting type action, there
again down where I was the last six months. Most of
that took place at night. It was again from 9
o'clock at night to about 3 o'clock in the morning.
We located as a central location at a Vietnamese
train center. We built us a little house out of just
ammo boxes and just anything we could find, you
know. And I stole a lot of things. I was the biggest
thief in Vietnam. I mean, and I really mean that
literally, and I say it with a great deal of pride,
but I had my antics. I'd only steal from Americans.
They were the only people that had anything
anyway. But I could not get any support from my own
people because I was under, basically, I was
assigned to the Vietnamese Army because I was
training them. my last six months. And basically
one of our little missions was to show them, you
know, fill out a form and, you know, 18 different
copies and give one to this place and, you know, and
you would start requesting all of these, whatever
you needed, food ammunition, you know. But it just
doesn't work in a Vietnamese unit because most
stuff had already been sold anyway. So you always
had these little breakdowns everywhere. Yeah,
we're trying to teach them how. How to make an
American army out of Vietnamese armies. Kind of
like trying to make a Democrat out of a Republican.
It's useless. That's right. And before that, they
didn't take the time to loan because they were
either stealing what they were supposed to be
ordering or they were selling what they'd already
ordered and it was just a breakdown. You had that.
There were lots of black market stuff going on
there with Americans and with Vietnamese. The...
The Vietnamese, you had different groups of
people in Vietnam. You had your ethnic
Vietnamese, then you had these Mont Yard people.
And the Mont Yard people, they hated all the
Vietnamese, North, South, East, West, Indian,
Mayan, they didn't like them, any of them, not one.
They had no use for them. And the only reason they
were on our side was because our government said,
okay, boys, you help us out, and when this deal's
over, then you're going to get these four
provinces, which are like counties, You're going
to get Darlac, Khantung, and I forget the name of
the other two provinces, and that's going to be
your cut out of the war when we win this deal. And so
that's the only reason why they kind of work
together. So the South Vietnamese had a conflict
between their own people and the people that live
in their provinces, as well as against the North
Vietnamese and the American side. Right. I've
heard that they not only resented the Americans,
they resented all of our allies that already
helped them. Oh yeah. Well, I hate one, I hate all
their cousins and everything too, so I tried. Made
for a good working relationship. Didn't it
though? My only, the only thing that I had total
power over was that if I felt like that I or any of my
people was in danger, and that this Vietnamese
officer, if he was in charge of an operation, they
had no control over me, and I had no control over
them. But what I could do is say, well, boy, if you
want to do that, that's fine. You just go ahead and
do it. But I tell you what, I ain't going to do that.
And when I left, so did my firepower. And that's
what they needed. And that's what they needed, and
they didn't want to go up. So basically you had...
effective control over, because all you had to do
was threaten to leave. If you left, so did your
firepower, and they couldn't do without. And by
threatening them, that still made them resent
you. Right, and they just, yeah, right, they just,
you know, they could, you could tell, you know,
well, you sorry sucker, you know, you did it to me
again, and, you know. We've already discussed
about, you said that, that North Vietnam, but they
were smart about fighting against you at night.
Well, can you kind of compare them to how, kind of
tell me what they would normally do in the jungle,
how they fought, like? You know, little traps and
stuff like that? Yeah. Well, the whole country
over there is just riddled with what they call the
punchy pits, which are little holes that were dug
in the ground, maybe two or three feet deep. And
what they do is they would, They would take bamboo
sticks
and sharpen them real sharp and harden them in a
fire. So they're just like steel. And then they
would cover them with either human or animal
feces. And then they'd plant them in the ground
with the pointed side up. So when you stepped in a
hole and fell, then those sticks would go like up
your legs or through your hands or your arms or
wherever you happen to land on, you know. But what
that does is you get all the bacteria from the feces
of the animals or humans gets into your wound and
over there you had a real hot, moist climate which
is just a perfect breeding ground for bacteria and
so your wounds would get infected and They played
the numbers games like we do. If you kill somebody,
they're just dead. You stack them up like cordwood
and deal with them whenever you can. However, if
you wound somebody, for every person that's
wounded, it takes about three people to take care
of them. So if you want to play the numbers game,
then it's better to wound somebody because Every
time you lose somebody, it takes that many more
people to take care of them, that much more
facilities. To transport them. Right, all kinds
of things. So,
yeah, we didn't take too many prisoners. We took
some prisoners. Most of the time, you know, you
just, they're shooting you, you shoot them until
they quit shooting, you know. And they don't give
up. And so most of the time, you had to kill them.
Every once in a while, you would take a prisoner
Normally, you would just send them back. You'd
call in and have them backed out with a helicopter
and take them back to some interrogation camp. And
they would talk to them, see what they knew, and
that kind of stuff. And then they'd put them in a
PILWP compound. What other kind of traps did you
use? Well, they had all kinds of, they were real
crafty in doing things. They had lots of different
types of bombs that they would make.
They would, you know, you might, Americans are
real bad about going through anywhere they go and I
see a stock of bananas, you know, and I go, oh, I'm
going to go get a banana, you know, and they go over
there and rip a banana off and move that banana
stalk and it blows up in your face, you know. You had
things like that. You had the same thing with
pineapples. You had lots of different tripwires,
which was another thing that made everybody real
nervous, is because they would take dud rounds
that are artillery shells that didn't explode,
and all they'd do is just defuse them and crack them
open and get the explosive out of them, and then
they would make, you know, like a bomb, and they'd
use, like, glass or nails or just other steel
fragments, so, and pack that in there, and then if
you trip something, you know, then that would blow
you know like on you and they were you know they were
detonated with either tripwires or they might use
a bind you know for a tripwire you know you didn't
know if that bind was really a bind or was it a
tripwire you know so you and you have to really be
observant when you're over there anything that's
just out of place at all really needs to be dealt
with a real cautious type basis You'd go in a lot of
these little villages, and when you go into a
village, then what you really do is you search
everything that you can think of in the village,
and then you destroy whatever you find. It might be
munitions, it might be food, it might be medicine,
it might be radio parts, or you just don't know what
you're going to find. And they had stuff
everywhere.
take like little logs they'd hollow out and they
might have like mortar rounds in there or they'd
have like false walls in the little hooches or
false ceilings or false floors and so you'd really
take a real good eyeball on a little building that
you'd go into you know you'd look at it real good and
you kind of mentally step it off uh outside of it and
you go on the inside and find it's a couple steps or a
step you know shorter and you know hmm wonder why
it's shorter on the inside is on the outside you
know how do you train yourself yeah right you learn
all this stuff uh you know if you pay attention if
you don't pay attention i'll be around anyway so uh
anyway uh they'd hide things they'd bury things
like they had little pits for like their animals to
you know kind of like where pigs would swap around
in mud so they had those you know same little pigs
and they had uh you know, like water buffalo, and
they'd kind of roll around in the mud, cool off,
that kind of stuff. You know, they'd bury, like,
rifles and stuff underneath that. And, of course,
we had, you can use, like, a mine detector. All it is
is a glorified metal detector. You know, so you
could use, you know, things like that, and you
start running those things through water, mud, or
it's over an area, and you pick up metal, you know,
if something's down there. You can do the same
thing if there's wood or walls, stuff like that,
though. We found people hiding behind walls. You
know, yeah, we had,
you know, like this one afternoon, this is kind of,
I guess, a bad story, I guess, but we were doing a
joint operation with the South Vietnamese unit,
and we had had, there's a deal there called Spider
Holes, where these guys, you know, dig these
little holes and they, you know, they camouflage
it real good and they jump up and they'll shoot at
you and they'll try to kill somebody and then
they'll cover themselves back up and it's real
hard, you know, you can't hardly find them. And,
uh, but you know it's somewhere so, you know, you
start really looking and then you can usually
find, it's like everything else, once you start
doing something then you can get good at it. And,
uh, so we, you know, of course we're rooting out
these people and there was this one little group in
this one village, you know, and, uh, uh, You know,
they kept shooting at us, you know, and we'd stay
out of the way of their bullets and stuff. And so we
told them, the Vietnamese, to come out, you know,
or we were going to kill them. And they needed to
come out and just turn themselves, you know, give
up. And they weren't going to be hurt, and they
weren't going to be killed. Of course, they didn't
believe us. And, you know, they start shooting at
you again every time you talk. And I just told them,
I said, this is your last chance. And are you going
to come or not? And they start shooting again. I
just took some grenades and rolled in there. And,
you know, they really do a job. And anyway, this one
particular afternoon, and this lady who was
standing out there, she was real upset. And she had
to be the wife. And I told her, man, you tell them,
sucker. We ain't kidding. And, you know, get them
out of there, because we don't want to kill them.
But, you know, we're going to, though. So she was
talking to them, and she couldn't get them to do
anything. And they told me it was their last
chance. So anyway, they threw them a grenade down
there, and they killed them. But anyway, it was
wiped out three generations. It was this lady's
father, her husband, and her son. She wiped out
three generations there in a period of five
minutes. And they were North Vietnamese? Yeah.
Why was she out? Well, it's not that they were North
Vietnamese. They were just either Viet Cong,
which are like VC sympathizers. Not everybody in
the United States agrees with everybody else over
here. We all have our own differences and our own
different beliefs. And they did too, so you had a
lot of BC sympathizers over there. Let
me ask you some more of these questions. You talked
about, you know, you rode there six months as a
staff and six months on the line. Yeah. How'd you
feel about that careerism? Did you feel like,
being six months there, that some officers,
knowing that it was their last six months or their
last month, they didn't fight as much, knowing
that they'd get to go home in the United States? No.
Everybody just fought the same? Yeah, because
it's kind of like playing a football game. If you
start letting up, you're going to get hurt. If you
quit paying attention, if you quit hitting hard,
it's when you kind of sandbag it a little bit,
that's when you get hurt. And over there, if you let
up at all, you're gonna get either somebody killed
or you're gonna get killed or something like that.
So you really, you had to be going 100%. So you felt
like everybody got it all they had? Yeah, I did. I
sit here and the news media over there, not over
there but over here, and everything I've ever seen
in the news media. I've never seen anything
positive from American news media about Vietnam.
And it was all a totally negative atmosphere. I
personally didn't find that to be the case. The
stereotype Vietnam veteran is a guy who's a drug
addict, can't hold a job, just a total misfit. I
don't even know anybody like that. I've never seen
anybody like that. I guess there's some out there.
Why would they want to be on drugs when that affects
their mind? They've got to have that mind intact to
fight that enemy. That doesn't make sense to me
either. I agree with you. I've seen the Vietnam
movies, Platoon and several other little Vietnam
movies that have come out. I didn't really find
them to be that real. I thought platoon was real,
but they perpetrated that show like
all infantry people over there, all your platoon,
which is platoon was the unit in Vietnam. It was
either tank platoon or infantry platoon, whereas
in World War II, it was army against army. Well, the
Vietnamese unit was a platoon. It was an army. You
didn't have any major clashes of this battalion
against that battalion or anything like that. It
was all just dirty little skirmishes all the time
going on. But the movie platoon was a culmination
of every war story I ever heard. And they
perpetrated it like that. Boy, that's what
happened every day. I thought they did a real
negative disservice to the American soldier
because in that movie, to me, it perpetrated them
as being people who got their kicks by bashing
little old ladies' heads in with their rifle butts
or stopping little kids or stuff like that or being
drug addicts and everybody hyped up or something.
I didn't see any of that. I guarantee you that if I
had people, any of my people, were on drugs, I
killed suckers myself. Because they could affect
your life. Not could, they would. And either I was
naive, and I don't really think that was the case,
but I didn't have any of my people were doing it. All
that drug stuff, most of the drugs that were going
on over there were people back in the base camps,
which is where the big concentration of people was
in the first place. As I mentioned earlier, I've
probably been to a couple hundred different
presentations on Vietnam that I show my slides
that I was over there with, giving lots of talk. The
Rotary Optimist, Lions Club, Ladies Club, all
different kinds of schools and all kinds of stuff.
And I found that most of my World War II type age
group of people You know, their big question was,
well, how come did that thing, that war take so long
to terminate when all you had was really a piece of
ground the size of the state of California? When
they were used to going, you know, 20, 30 miles a day
like in Europe or something like that, you know,
they were hooking them. You know, why could you, in
effect, never get anything done? Well, reason you
couldn't because there wasn't any fronts over
there there was no front you didn't know where the
enemy yeah the front was everywhere you know in
fact that was my question when i first got there was
where's the front i said you're here it's
everywhere you don't know where it's everywhere
it's nowhere and uh so which is frustrating for
americans because americans are used to to having
a problem and dealing with the problem and then
going on and forgetting about it, which was real
frustrating to people over there because you
would go take this hill this day, and then you would
leave there and go over here and do another one, and
then six days later you'd go back there and take
that same hill again. Well, I did that last week.
Let's go to a new place. But they had just moved, you
know. So it was really kind of a real frustrating
type of atmosphere over there. The big thing was
that we won all the battles, and we lost the war.
Wasn't it, it was hard because you'd see these
Vietnamese people, and you couldn't tell if they
were the enemy or if they weren't. And then during
the day, they might be your friends. But at night,
when you shot them, you'd find out those weren't my
friends after all. That's right. And I had that
very thing happen to me. I had some people who were
cleaning our hooches when I first got over there
when I was in that administrative capacity. And a
couple weeks later, they got killed as being in a
Sapper attack at night, which is carrying bombs
and blow things up at night. And so you did have
that. And it was just common. And you didn't know
who they were. They didn't wear uniforms. They all
looked alike. That's right. Did you, were you ever
wounded? No. You're unfortunate. Yeah, I have,
you know, I got blown off this roof one night, off
two stories, but I didn't break any bones. And, you
know, technically, you know, if you get hurt any
way, whether it's sitting on a bar stool and you
fall over and break an ankle, You get, if you're in a
combat zone, you get a purple heart bar. I mean,
even if you scratch yourself, you get a purple
heart. Of course, I had lots of little scratches
and stuff like that, but I didn't ever, you know,
put in any purple hearts. I wasn't into that. Did
you receive any medals? Yeah, I got a Bronze Star,
but... and told a lot of other people. Not even a big
deal. It was more of a thank you, I think, than
anything else.
Medals were kind of funny. I used to write up, when I
was with the 2nd and 1st Cav, I used to write up, in
effect, awards for medals, usually for senior
officers who basically were nowhere near any
action. But there again, I told you that everybody
in it was from West Point, and they took care of
their own. I wrote up, I can't tell you how many
medal awards, silver stars, bronze stars, for
colonels, majors, lieutenant colonels who were
not there. So most of those people that you saw
hanging medals on their chest didn't deserve
them. They're more or less promoting their career
just by saying, I was over there, and they take
their... I'm not saying that all people did that,
because they did, and there were some real
legitimate things, but you'll find that a lot of
people that really deserve things never even put
in for it, didn't want them, were put in for it, were
awarded it, and say, I don't want them. There was a
lot of that. I don't want any of that. I don't want
nothing about that. They just did their job. Yeah,
and you had asked people, what are you fighting
for? I said, 365 days. That's what it's for, 365
days. And so because I was with MACV my last six
months, I got to see a lot more of the political side
of the war. I made lots of trips to Saigon. and got to
see some things. I asked a lot of questions. What
did you think about that government in Saigon a
while ago? Before you mentioned it was corrupt,
can you tell me some instances where you saw this?
Yeah, I can give you a few little examples. And of
course, they can't be corrupt unless they've got
something to be corrupt for and about. And I think
you can thank our politicians in this country for
helping them in that department. I'll give you a
nice example of that. I talked to a guy in Saigon who
was in charge of dispersing docking fees for the
military, for the Department of Navy. Here we are.
We went over there, built them the best harbors,
warehouses, docks. They had nothing. We went over
and built them the best of everything, the best
that could technically be built at that
particular time. built it, paid for it with
American taxpayer dollars, brought them all of
the munitions, supplies to fight their war, in
effect, for them, furnished people, material,
everything. And then when we would pull up a ship up
to these docks, then they would charge us docking
fees for unloading all this stuff. And I talked to a
guy that paid, he personally paid $550 million
dollars in docking fees in one month. I'll give you
another example. Most of the supplies were for
them to use. Sure. It was either directly for them
or indirectly through the American, the
Australian, New Zealand, or Koreans, everybody
else who was over there. It was all for their direct
benefit, but indirectly. used by somebody else.
Why did we pay that? Why didn't we say, no, we built
these for you and we're helping you? Well, because
there's lots of things that go on in war. Nowadays,
your monotype wars are not wars. It's just like
Vietnam really wasn't a war. It was a conflict.
Korea wasn't a war. It was a police action. I think
if we have a nuclear holocaust, it's just going to
be a disagreement of opinion. I don't know if we're
all these definitions come from, but to me a war is
where people fight and shoot and get killed and
hurt people and things like that. And war in itself
is very simple. You either kill people, you
destroy the enemy, you destroy their supplies, or
you destroy their morale. In effect, you make it
not worth the effort. If you're coming down south
to fight, and you're from North Vietnam, you're
coming down south, and all of a sudden you find out
that all of your homeland just been blown away. Is
this really worth it? But see, our government
chose not to do that. We could have made it. I
guarantee you I could have ended that war in 90 days
without nuclear weapons. But yet I would have done
things that has been done in all other wars. I would
have killed people. I would have destroyed
supplies. I would have made it demoralizing for
the enemy. And I'm talking about bombing their
towns, their schools, their hospitals. you know,
flooding, breaking their dams and flooding out
all their whole systems, their electricity, you
know, all their hiding places, which are all
underground. There was a big dam in Hanoi, which
just the water alone would have drowned
everybody, you know. It would have stopped. Yeah,
above ground, below ground, either one, you know.
But see, we didn't do that. I mean, it's really,
it's just really stupid. And you sit there and you
wonder, You know, why? You know, because all the
movies you saw with John Wayne and Audie Murphy and
all those guys, you know, it's like, you know,
those are bad guys, you know, you go get them, and,
you know, it's over. But our government, because
of our politicians, they didn't let the military,
the military won. The politicians didn't win,
see. They're the ones that sold the country out.
They're always looking for maybe this will
happen, or they procrastinated waiting for
something to happen and didn't let the military do
what they knew what to do. Well, they had other
reasons for doing it, and I'll give you a nice
example of that. Let me give you another example of
some more little corruption there about the
government. Our government leased over 80 hotels
in downtown Saigon alone. uh... for for troop
building space that's where they live you know
america he's gonna have electric shaver and he's
gonna have a stereo and all that kind of trash and
uh... but all of our electronic gear is designed to
run on alternating current well because the the
french and other people in europe most of their
electricity is what they call dc or direct current
uh... it doesn't work with our stuff so what we did
is our engineers went in and they rewired all these
buildings you know so our guys have a place to plug
in their shavers, listen to their music. And then
again, we would put these big 30kW generators out
in front of these hotels, you know, to provide the
generator capacity to run the electricity for the
hotel. The Vietnamese government would come
along and put electric meters on our generators
and charge us for electricity. Yeah. And I got
pictures of all this. It's not just some figment of
my imagination. I didn't dream up all this stuff.
Well, I'll tell you another little interesting
story about something else that you really might
consider. That's why we were really there. And I
don't think it was so we might use the premises so
they can have a democratic society. I think that's
a bunch of horse manure. The only reason why we were
there and the only reason why any war in all of
history has been fought has been for the almighty
dollar. Because you're not going to convince
anybody else to go fight over a cause. I guarantee
you, no one's going to get upset about slavery. I
mean, you were taught in school, as I was taught in
school, that civil war was fought over slavery. It
wasn't fought over slavery. It was fought over the
almighty dollar, just like all the other wars. And
the South had to have slavery to make the money. To
economically make it, and the North and they were
doing real good. And the North didn't like that.
They were eating into their backyard. That's what
it was really fought over. I mean, all your big, you
know, anti-slavery people like Lincoln, credit
sucker, owned slaves. George Washington owned
slaves. I mean, who are these guys? You know, let's
get back and call a spade a spade. You know, really
tell it like it is. Same thing in Vietnam. As I
understand it, They have huge forests, and of
course I've seen most of them, they have huge
forests of real exotic hardwoods. Trees and
forests that are 100,000 years old, they're just
prime wood. There's lots of people that use lots of
wood. Vietnam has a lot of minerals on it. They have
oil reserves off the coast. It's really kind of
funny, Vietnamese, The North Vietnamese and Viet
Cong, when they like to blow up something, they'll
pass up two or three truckloads of ammunition,
which costs a tremendous amount of money, in order
to blow up a 5,000-gallon
tanker truck that has gasoline or diesel fuel on
it. Because when they shoot a B-40 rocket, which is
kind of like a bazooka-type deal, when they shoot a
B-40 rocket into a gasoline truck, It makes a big
fire and there's smoke and, you know, they like
that. You know, they can see that they've done
something. Whereas you blow up ammunition, it's
all over, you know. So, you know, why would they,
you know, pass up a deal in order to do that? You
know, it doesn't make a lot of sense for you or I
because we think let's get rid of the ammunition,
you know, gas is cheap and, you know. But they like
to go after the smoke and fire and they can see the
action. Well, Shell, Exxon, Texaco, Gulf,
Exxon, Shell, Texaco, I think Gulf is over there
too. They had gas stations all over, just like here
in America, gas stations everywhere. But you
never saw one get blown up. And this tremendous
desire that I know that they like to see things blow
up and smoke and burn, how come they didn't hit all
these gas stations?
I mean, wouldn't you, if you liked that, wouldn't
you go do that? Well, the deal was, from what I
understand, was that Shell and Exxon and Texaco
and all these companies were paying the North
Vietnamese cash every month not to blow their
things up because it was cheaper for them to pay
those guys cash just, you know, rather than
rebuilding a new service station every week. So
they just made cash payments to them. So we're
sitting there funding, you know, You know, it's
just a crazy deal.
You see what I'm talking about? I can see. And it
doesn't make any sense what happened. You tell me
why you believe we began the war. Can you tell me
your thoughts on why we lost the war? I mean, you
covered a lot of it already. You mean why I think
that we pulled out? Yeah. Politically, it just
wasn't a good deal to do anymore. had really
stirred up a bunch of stuff on the home front. There
are a lot of people upset about it. Well, the
politicians are just scumbags, in my opinion.
They'll sell us out. I don't really fear the
Russian Army. If I fear anybody, it's our
politicians. I think they'll sell us out tomorrow
if it was beneficial for them. Because you've got a
group of people who have done nothing their whole
life but sell out this group to benefit that group,
and then when the winds change, They sell out that
group and benefit the other group. That's the
nature of a politician. That's the essence of
being a politician. That's why they're there.
They're there for their personal benefit.
They're there to ride that horse as long as they can
ride it. You place the blame on the politicians. I
certainly do, 100%.
I think Nixon, he had the political guts to pull
out, and it was going to be a big world black eye for
us. And it was and has been. But he knew it was the
proper thing to do. Either if you're not going to
fight the war to win, then get out. And because our
politicians wouldn't turn the military loose,
Nixon had the decency to pull out. Then we're not
going to waste any more people's lives. We're not
going to get anybody else hurt. We're pulling out.
And that's what he did. So, let me ask you this
question. Excuse me, as compared to a Lyndon
Johnson, who is your typical and probably the
master politician, he's the guy that really
escalated the deal. He's the guy that wouldn't
turn the military loose. And there was a
construction company over there called RMKBRJ,
and what it was was... was some initials for
people, and what it really was, was a way for a
construction company to go in there before,
during, and after. These were the people that
built all this stuff. And then after the war was
over, they were going to have their foothold into
building towns, cities, housing, everything.
And then it was already set up, even when we pulled
out, you know, that these are the guys, you know,
they talk about the war reparations, you know,
where, you know, you're supposed to pay us so much
stuff for damages you did to our country, you know,
that kind of stuff, and we haven't done that. And
the reason we haven't done that is because
politically it would be very hard for this country
to give money to those people politically. See,
and that's why they have MIAs that are over there.
They have them by the hundreds. They're alive.
They're still captive. They're still being
tortured. And they're not going to give those
people back to us until we pay those warp
reparations. That's the deal. That's the real
deal behind all this stuff. And they're going to
sit there and hold them. They can wait a lot longer
than we can. So our politicians are just saying,
no, we just hear rumors of that, but there's been no
real positive identifications. But yeah, we've
had tourists. families who have been over there
who have actually seen people, there's pictures
of them, recent pictures, they're alive and
they're there and our government's not doing
anything
about it. About that question I asked you, did you
feel that we were justified in going over there?
Well, of course you really, you know,
I feel like that the people who went over there were
more than justified because, in my opinion, your
country called, right, wrong, or indifferent,
and you answered the call. Okay?